In plain English, this clause says "We use open source code, and if I happen to improve an open source library during the course of this contract, it's understood that I might want to turn it into a patch and resubmit it, as long as the patch won't violate the client's confidentiality or other proprietary IP".

The Free and Open Source Clause is for clients who are paranoid about GPL virality.

The Open Source Clause is preferred.

Note that the "at X's discretion" phrase is important: "at Consultant's discretion" means the Consultant will use his or her professional/ethical judgement and can submit patches at will; "at Company's discretion" might be interpreted to mean that the Company needs to be notified prior to patch submission and has power to veto.

---

Open Source Clause

**Open Source Software.**  It is understood that Consultant may, at
Consultant's discretion, make use of libraries from various "Open
Source" software products during the course of work. Consultant may
submit back to such libraries any improvements ("patches") made to the
Open Source Software during the course of work, as long as the
submission of such patches violates neither the conditions in this
Section, nor the Confidentiality provisions in Section XXX.

---

Free and Open Source Clause

**Free and Open Source Software.**  It is understood that Consultant may,
at Company’s discretion, make use of libraries from various “open
source” software products during the course of work, and that some
such products may be subject to a license that requires, as a
condition of distribution of such products, that such software or
other software combined and/or distributed with such software be (x)
disclosed or distributed in source code form; (y) licensed for the
purpose of making derivative works; or (z) redistributable at no
charge ("Free Software").  In no event shall the source code from such
Free Software be incorporated into the source code of any Work Product
(including without limitation any unit test) or any other Deliverable
without the prior written consent of Company.  Further, Consultant
may, if required by the license of such Free Software, submit back to
such libraries any improvements ("patches") made to the Free Software
during the course of work, as long as the submission of such patches
violates neither the conditions in this Section, nor the
Confidentiality provisions in Section XXX.
